feat: adding new page for contextual tuples (#956)
openfga/openfga.dev: docs/content/interacting/contextual-tuples.mdx

---
title: Contextual Tuples
description: Understanding and using contextual tuples
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /interacting/contextual-tuples
---

import { ProductName, ProductNameFormat, RelatedSection } from '@components/Docs';

# Contextual Tuples

Contextual tuples are special relationship tuples that exist temporarily within a specific API request. Unlike regular relationship tuples stored in the database, contextual tuples are provided when making authorization queries and are valid only for that particular request.

## How Contextual Tuples Work

> When making requests to [Check](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Check), [ListObjects](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects), [ListUsers](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListUsers), [Expand](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Expand), [Write](/api/service#/Relationship%20Tuples/Write) you can include contextual tuples in the request. These tuples are treated as if they were actual stored tuples during the evaluation of that request but are not persisted to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When making requests to [Check](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Check), [BatchCheck](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/BatchCheck), [ListObjects](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListObjects), [ListUsers](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/ListUsers) and [Expand](/api/service#/Relationship%20Queries/Expand) you can include contextual tuples in the request. These tuples are treated as if they were actual stored tuples during the evaluation of that request but are not persisted to the database and will not affect other requests.
```

2. When a user has multiple relationships with the same object, and you want to specify which relationship to consider. For example, if a user belongs to multiple organizations but is logged into only one of them, you can [use contextual tuples to specify which organization to consider](../modeling/organization-context-authorization.mdx).

3. When using information that's only available at runtime, such as the [current time](../modeling/contextual-time-based-authorization.mdx) or the user's location. This scenario is better served with [Conditional Relationships](../modeling/conditions.mdx).

## Important Considerations

1. Contextual tuples are ephemeral and exist only for the duration of the request.

> 2. When a contextual tuple specifies a conditional relationship that already exists in the database, the contextual tuple takes precedence and the tuple in the database is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When a contextual tuple is sent, and a tuple with the same user, relation and object is in the database - the one in context takes precedence and the one in the DB is ignored.
```

> 3. They are validated using the same authorization model rules as stored tuples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Contextual tuples are validated using the same authorization model rules as stored tuples.
```

4. There is currently a limit of 100 contextual tuples per request.

> 5. While token claims can be used for contextual tuples, access will continue until token expiration even if the underlying claims (like group membership) change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. When token claims can be used for contextual tuples, it means that access will continue until token expiration even if the underlying claims (like group membership) change.
```

## Related Sections

<RelatedSection
  description="Learn more about the core concepts and APIs related to contextual tuples."
  relatedLinks={[
    {
      title: 'Token Claims as Contextual Tuples',
      description: 'Learn how to use token claims as contextual tuples.',
      link: '../modeling/token-claims-contextual-tuples',
      id: '../modeling/token-claims-contextual-tuples.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Organization Context Authorization',
      description: 'Learn about organization context-based authorization.',
      link: '../modeling/organization-context-authorization',
      id: '../modeling/organization-context-authorization.mdx',
    },
    {
      title: 'Conditional Relationships',
      description: 'Learn about using conditions in relationship definitions.',
      link: '../modeling/conditions',
      id: '../modeling/conditions.mdx',

>     },
>     {
>       title: 'Check API',
>       description: 'Learn how to perform authorization checks.',
>       link: '../getting-started/perform-check',
>       id: '../getting-started/perform-check.mdx',
>     },
>     {
>       title: 'ListObjects API',
>       description: 'Learn how to list objects a user has access to.',
>       link: '../getting-started/perform-list-objects',
>       id: '../getting-started/perform-list-objects.mdx',

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Normally we try to have a max of 3 links per page
